---
title: "Large-scale distributed locality-sensitive hashing for general metric data"
date: 2014-01-01
categories: ["publication", "conference"]
topics: ["Locality Sensitive Hashing", "Probabilistic Data Structures"]
authors: ["Eliezer de Souza da Silva", "Thiago Teixeira",  "George Teodoro", "Eduardo Valle"]
---

**Abstract**
Locality-Sensitive Hashing (LSH) is extremely competitive for similarity search, but works under the assumption of uniform access cost to the data, and for just a handful of dissimilarities for which locality-sensitive families are available. In this work we propose Parallel Voronoi LSH, an approach that addresses those two limitations of LSH: it makes LSH efficient for distributed-memory architectures, and it works for very general dissimilarities (in particular, it works for all metric dissimilarities). Each hash table of Voronoi LSH works by selecting a sample of the dataset to be used as seeds of a Voronoi diagram. The Voronoi cells are then used to hash the data. Because Voronoi diagrams depend only on the distance, the technique is very general. Implementing LSH in distributed-memory systems is very challenging because it lacks referential locality in its access to the data: if care is not taken, excessive message-passing ruins the index performance. Therefore, another important contribution of this work is the parallel design needed to allow the scalability of the index, which we evaluate in a dataset of a thousand million multimedia features.

**Accepted at** 
- [International Conference on Similarity Search and Applications (SISAP), 2014](https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/978-3-319-11988-5_8), Los Cabos, Mexico.
- [Alternate link](https://www.academia.edu/download/46161533/Large-Scale_Distributed_Locality-Sensiti20160602-1515-1qniuib.pdf)

